---
layout: page
---

h1. Overview
 
 The RubySpec project aims to write a complete executable specification for
 the "Ruby":http://ruby-lang.org programming language that is
 syntax-compatible with "RSpec":http://rspec.info. RSpec is essentially a DSL
 (domain-specific language) for describing the behavior of code. This project
 contains specs that describe Ruby language syntax, "core
 library":http://ruby-doc.org/core classes, and "standard
 library":http://ruby-doc.org/stdlib classes.
 
 The specs generally serve two purposes: 1) to drive development, and 2) as a
 verification mechanism. These goal can sometimes be at odds. During
 development, the code and specs evolve together. For verification, it is
 desirable to have a highly stable set of specs that ideally have been audited
 for correctness. The specs have been extensively used and developed
 "BDD":http://behaviour-driven.org/ style in the "Rubinius":http://rubini.us
 project for almost 1.5 years with numerous contributions by other projects
 like "JRuby":http://jruby.codehaus.org/. Consequently, the specs have
 attained a high degree of stability. However, there are a number of core
 library classes and numerous standard library classes for which specs still
 need to be written.
 
 The following documents describe how the Rubinius specs are organized, the
 style used to write them, and special measures (guards) used to write a
 single body of specs that accommodates numerous different Ruby
 implementations.
 
 * [[Getting Started]] -- Get up and running with MSpec and the RubySpec files
 * [[Ruby 1.9 Issues]] -- Fixing the RubySpecs for Ruby 1.9.
 * [[Organization]] -- Where to find what you are looking for
 * [[Style Guide]] -- Rules to follow while writing or fixing specs
 * [[Guards]] -- Understand how versions, platforms, and implementations play well together
 * "Runners":/wiki/mspec/Runners -- Detailed help for all the MSpec runner scripts
 * [[Contributing]] -- How to get involved improving the RubySpecs

